# Web3 money responsibilities

In Web3 networks there are a number of responsibilities that could be handled by Web3 money.



## Network governance

Web3 networks need to be maintained and improved over time. The community will often need to consider the existing network parameters and when they might need to be changed. New versions of the network protocol might need to be approved through a governance process before deployment. Treasury income that is generated by transaction fees, wealth taxes or other forms of taxation would need to be governed by the community to determine how those funds should be spent. Web3 money could play an important role in some or all of these governance decisions. Web3 money can be used to influence someone's voting power in these decisions. How much Web3 money someone holds is one form of contribution. The network benefits from ongoing demand for the money as this helps to maintain the price of that money. How much fees or taxes someone has paid is another valuable contribution. The network benefits from people that actively use the network and pay for the node operators that are maintaining the network.

Network governance is a vital part of ensuring a Web3 network survives and thrives over the long term. It is difficult to adopt parameters that never need to be updated or to create protocols that never require any future changes. Web3 networks are open and permissionless, no one is forced to use one network over the other. This is why contributions are an important part of determining voting power as that can prove which people are participating and using the network. Whether people hold or use the Web3 money regularly or not can be an important contribution to consider when determining who should have more or less voting power in any governance decisions.



## Network operation

Web3 networks are a digital system of money. They require people to purchase hardware and then run software to operate nodes that run the network. These nodes will verify any transactions that get submitted and store any completed transactions on a distributed ledger. Node operators need to be incentivised to participate in the network as otherwise there would be no financial reason for anyone to maintain the network. Web3 money is commonly used to pay for the node operators. Transaction fees could be used to pay for node operators or they could also be paid through other forms of taxation.

Network operation is a highly important responsibility for money as the incentives need to be reliable and effective over the long term. Problems with incentivising the node operators at any stage could lead to systemic failure risks for a Web3 network.



## Token asset exchange liquidity

Web3 networks enable people to create tokens that can represent any physical or digital asset. They could have any number of properties or be used for any number of use cases. Distributed ledger technology will bring more assets online and make them available as token based assets. Tokens could represent full ownership or fractional ownership over an asset. They could also provide the holder with other rights that might be useful. Web3 money could be paired up with any of these token based assets and be provided as liquidity in an exchange. This liquidity would enable people to quickly swap the network coin or any existing token for any other token. Exchanging token based assets will be an increasingly important part of Web3 networks as a growing amount of assets become tokenized and become widely available for use in these networks. Liquidity would become increasingly fragmented if every token had to make an exchange pairing with every other token that was being used. The number of tokens that gain adoption could continue to grow over time. This is why Web3 money is an important solution to this exchange problem. A single Web3 money could be used as the primary pairing for any of these token exchanges. This means that each token would only need to have a pairing with the Web3 money that is being used. Once this liquidity is provided it will make it easy for anyone to swap from any token they have to any other token.

Exchange liquidity is a very important responsibility for Web3 money as these networks are competing with other networks to provide the most seamless experience for purchasing, swapping and holding digital assets. Those that can create the deepest liquidity with the least slippage will be more desirable due to higher market efficiencies.



## Medium of exchange

Historically money has been governed and maintained by nation state central banks. Money would be assigned the classification of legal tender and this meant everyone would need to accept that currency as a medium of exchange for any goods or services. Web3 networks change this paradigm, as users can decide which forms of money they want to create, use and accept themselves. Nation states may still determine what is legal tender in their own countries, and that may still be required for tax related payments. However Web3 changes the monetary system. People can decide themselves what forms of money they want to hold and use to exchange value in their day to day lives.

People use money on a daily basis to pay for goods and services. Web3 money can be adopted as the medium of exchange to transfer value from one person to the other. A medium of exchange that is broadly adopted and used can benefit from responding to economic changes so that prices can remain stable. This can mean that the supply of the money might need to increase or decrease depending on different economic factors. People want money that is reliable and stable so that economic exchange isn’t interrupted due to volatility or a lack of availability of that money. Web3 networks enable anyone to create their own medium of exchange in the form of token based assets. This means that there could be an ongoing amount of competition between different forms of money that compete against each other to be the most effective medium of exchange.

The medium of exchange is a vital part of any economy and Web3 money will likely play an increasing role in how people exchange goods and services. Web3 networks create a completely new environment for money. There is an opportunity for multiple mediums of exchange to exist at the same time and compete with one another in a free market.
