# Goals & concessions

The network coin is commonly responsible for operating the network and facilitating transactions. Using the network coin within financial protocols and as contract collateral are two other important use cases for maintaining long term demand. The network coin has a number of goals that it needs to achieve if a network is going to thrive over the long term.



**Goal - Maintain high availability of the network coin**

The network coin needs to always be available so that anyone can use it to pay for usage of the network. Every user of the network relies on ongoing access to the network coin. If the network coin becomes extremely expensive this could lead to an environment where the network coin is not easily available for people to use. Expensive transactions could hinder economic activity. Large amounts of idle network coins sitting in peoples wallets is an example of the network coin becoming less available. The network coin should always be available to facilitate economic activity and that it should never hinder it.

To achieve this goal networks will need to disincentivise the idle storage of the network coin. Networks can incentivise people to use the network coin more productively and in a way that makes it more widely available for others to use - such as within financial protocols. A network coin tax incentivises people to use the coin more productively and one of those incentives can be to use it as financial liquidity and as contract collateral.



**Goal - Achieve balanced demand for the network coin**

Web3 networks need to strike a balance with generating enough demand for the network coin. They need to ensure that it is not too desirable to use and hold with it also not being too undesirable that it is only used for transaction fees. If the network coin only has demand for the use case of transaction fees there is a risk that the security of a Proof of Stake network could become increasingly compromised. This is because the value of the network coin will play an important role in determining how easy it is for someone to attain a large supply of it in a short period of time. If the network coin is used for the consensus mechanism and to govern the network itself it would be of paramount importance for the network to ensure that the price of the network coin remains sufficiently high. A sufficiently high price would mean the network cannot be easily attacked. There is also a risk on the other side of the spectrum where the network coin could become too desirable. In this scenario users could start accumulating as much of the network coin as they can due to price appreciation and/or income that they generate from staking and financial protocols. Storable money increases the likelihood that wealth concentrates into the hands of a few people over the long term. Networks need to strike the right balance of generating just enough demand for the network coin to maintain a high value, meaning the network remains reliably secure but also so that the coin is sufficiently distributed and not concentrated into the hands of a few people.

Achieving this goal will require the implementation of a network coin tax that is above the average yield that can be achieved in financial protocols and from staking the network coin. This will help to disperse the network coin over time. Any economic growth will lead to increases in the network coin price which benefits existing holders and also makes it more expensive over time to repurchase coins that have been taxed. Keeping the network coin tax rate above this value should help with maintaining a high enough velocity of the network coin as it reduces the return on investment potential from just staking the coin and using it in low risk yield bearing protocols.



**Goal - Create a sustainable economy**

Web3 networks need to reliably incentivise node operators to maintain and operate the network. These networks are also complex, and will often require ongoing maintenance and improvements to the infrastructure if they want to remain competitive. A sustainable economy will be one that can reliably incentivise node operators as well as developers to maintain and operate the network over the long term.

Achieving a sustainable economy will involve creating a circular economy where fees and taxes can be combined together to provide a sufficient amount of income for the ecosystem to sustain itself. Web3 networks compete with one another to provide the lowest possible transaction fees, so the adoption of a network coin tax would likely become increasingly important for maintaining and operating the network over the long term. Income from transaction fees can be reduced as much as possible and be replaced by the income that is generated by a network coin tax.



**Goal - Maintain a predictable, reliable and secure network**

Web3 networks will eventually get adopted at a global scale. These networks will become increasingly mission critical for society as an increasing number of people depend on them for their daily lives. This scale and responsibility creates a need for these networks to become increasingly predictable, reliable and secure. A network implementation should be as simple as possible so it is easier to maintain and so there are fewer attack vectors that could be exploited. A network should also benefit from having the minimal amount of governance processes involved to operate the network, as this will reduce the cost and complexity of operating a global network. Simpler governance structures can help to reduce the possibility of these decision processes becoming an attack vector for malicious actors.

Achieving this goal for the network coin will involve ongoing efforts to make the monetary policy and governance mechanisms as simple as possible whilst also providing the necessary functionality that the network needs. Complex supply change mechanisms would need to be thoroughly justified over simpler solutions. Self correcting and automated solutions will be highly desirable if they are feasible to implement whilst also being reliable and secure at scale.



**Goal - Achieve global network effects**

Many Web3 networks already compete with one another for market share. Society benefits from ongoing competition from new and emerging networks to ensure that the most effective network is adopted over the long term. Networks have no choice but to compete in a free market if they want to survive. Creating network effects where possible will be an important part of determining which networks succeed over the long term and which ones fail.

Part of surviving over the long term will involve the identification of any network effects that could make a network more useful and sticky as it scales with more adoption. One example of this could be the number of users, apps, use cases or the amount of financial liquidity that is deposited and used across the network. The network will need to identify how the network coin could be used in a way that makes the network more useful and valuable as it is more widely adopted. Prioritising the most important use cases for the network coin and incentivising those use cases should help with creating better network effects. Financial liquidity is one of the more compelling use cases for the network coin. Financial liquidity incentives could be used to create global network effects due to the impact they could have on increasing the efficiency of financial markets at a global scale.



**Concession - Adoption of token based mediums of exchange**

The network coin needs to be incredibly reliable and secure if the network is going to be adopted at a global scale. If the network coin wanted to compete as a medium of exchange it would need to consider factors such as price stability and how the supply is managed to accommodate changes in the global economy. The problem with this is that it would be very difficult to create a single medium of exchange that can function well for the entire population and that also fulfils every communities use case. Some economies would outgrow others and the requirements and preferences for some countries and communities may differ from others. The governance complexity and cost of making changes would also be astronomically high. These complexities do not need to be handled by the network coin. The network coin can focus entirely on maintaining and operating the network itself and ensuring that it is always available for anyone to use the network. The network coin needs to be widely available, predictable, reliable and secure. Minimising the responsibilities of the network coin are of paramount importance due to the complexity of maintaining a global network. Wherever possible the network coin can delegate responsibilities elsewhere.

Web3 networks introduce the possibility for people to create as many token based forms of money as they want to. This creates a truly open and permissionless market for mediums of exchange to compete with one another. Tokens represent a compelling reason why the network coin doesn’t need to handle the responsibility of being a widely adopted medium of exchange. A third reason is that competing as a medium of exchange would mean less network coins would be available for other use cases such as for financial liquidity or transaction fees. This could create an opportunity for another network to incentivise deeper and more efficient financial liquidity. The network coin would be more effective at facilitating token exchanges if it is able to focus on this key responsibility instead of trying to be responsible for too many things. A final reason that token money is a more desirable solution for becoming a medium of exchange is it enables a community to create the exact form of money they want to. One that functions in any way that they prefer and that will be governed in a way that works for them. Token money would be completely context and environment specific. Many forms of token based money can be created to handle the responsibility of being a medium of exchange.
